>> Evan You: We're gonna look into how
to actually do this ourselves, and
we're gonna actually implement
a mini data observer
that's similar to how it works in view.
So I assume everyone's got
the zipped repository,
so let's extract it and
go into the repository.
So we'll see these files,
inside reactivity look at 1.1.md.
So each exercise comes
with a markdown file that
describes the requirement and
an associated html file,
which asks you to
implement the requirements.
So the first exercise is understanding
how to use Object.defineProperty.
If you've never used this API before,
look it up on MDN, and
check out how the API works.
Essentially how Object.defineProperty
works, I think I'm going to just quickly
walk through it, because reading
through the docs may take some time.
It's just a global API
that looks like this,
Property, all right?
And it takes the source object,
obviously, as the first argument, and
the second argument is the key of
the property that you want to manipulate.
So this key can be in the existing key,
or in an unexisting key.
So if it doesn't exist it'll create it for
you,
if it exists it depends on whether that
property is so-called configurable.
If it's configurable, we can override it.
So we'll just use a random key, and
then the third argument should
be an object descriptor.
So this descriptor can take some
properties like, enumerable.
>> Evan You: By default all of
these properties are false.
So if a property is declared
as enumerable false,
then when you use, say, for
far keying object to iterate over it,
it will not show up,
because it's not enumerable.
Similarly it will not show
up in object keys, and
configurable as we just talked about,
prevents it from being redefined again.
So once you've define something
with configurable false,
it can never be changed again,
so be careful with that.
And then we have writable, so
if a property is not writable,
you can still assign to it, but it will
have no effect, and it will fail silently.
So it's also something that
you should be careful about.
But finally the most important
thing is the get and set functions.
So we can define functions get and set,
>> Evan You: And
this will overwrite the default behavior,
so
get overwrites the .access, and
set overwrites the assignment.
So you can return arbitrary
values from the get function.
So if you [LAUGH] return bar, so
you will have a property that always,
always, always return bar no matter what,
you cannot change it [LAUGH] anymore.
What you can do to change it, though, is,
so the set obviously takes the new value
as the argument, and the problem's how
do you save this value somewhere, right?
So obviously, you have to save it
somewhere else, so the realValue,
you need to put it in another variable.
So you can then return realValue,
>> Evan You: And
I'll let you fill in the rest, so
let's open the first exercise.
>> Evan You: So the exercise requires
you to implement a convert object.
[COUGH] And the requirement is,
it should walk through all
the properties inside the given object,
and convert each of them into
a pair of getters and setters.
And the converting object should retain
the original behavior, so if you assign
it a new value and then you access it
again, it should return the new value.
It should just act just like the original
object, but at the same time,
whenever you access a property,
you should console.log that access.
And whenever you set a property to
a new value, it should also be logged.
Essentially you need to create an object
that automatically logs all the access and
assignments that's happening on it.
Is that clear?
>> Evan You: So, if you have
Node.js installed on your machine,
inside the repository you can run
NPM Install to install some testing tools.
Some of these exercises include automated
test suites that you can run with
NPM Test, to assert whether your
current implementation is correct.
Make sure to pass these arguments, so
that you limit the test
to the current exercise.